# Lessons Lost: Lack of post-project evaluation is hindering evidence-based conservation

## Abstract
The importance of ensuring that conservation actions are informed by evidence is increasingly widely recognized. However, for conservation to be based on evidence, the outcomes of actions need to be shared so they can contribute to building an evidence base. Unfortunately, the majority of conservation practice does not contribute to building an evidence base on the effectiveness, or ineffectiveness, of conservation actions. Funder requirements should play an important role in the extent to which evidence is produced. The European Union (EU) funds conservation actions through a variety of mechanisms. The most notable and well-studied is the LIFE Programme but the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) also provides substantial funding to support conservation management. We undertook a stratified systematic review of EU-funded ERDF and LIFE projects to create an overview of conservation funding within the EU by both mechanisms and to evaluate the extent to which these programmes contribute to building an evidence base about the effectiveness of the conservation actions they fund. We also compared ERDF's grantee requirements to those of other conservation funders (including EU’s LIFE). ERDF has a considerable budget allocation for biodiversity conservation projects within the EU (€ 760M from 2014 to 2024, based on our sample). However, it contributes very little to building the evidence-base for conservation as little information about the projects, and very limited impact evaluation, is published online. This is likely due to limited requirements for reporting results when compared to other funders, including the EU LIFE programme. We explore how funder requirements for reporting of results vary across a range of funders of conservation projects and suggest how changes could incentivize higher quality reporting of project outcomes, expanding the evidence base for the effectiveness of conservation actions and contributing more to much-needed improvements in conservation effectiveness..

